# Managing merge conflicts

At some point, you're going to have a merge conflict. Conflicts arise when users have made overlapping changes to a file, and Git can't automatically merge the changes.

In this exercise, you will deliberately create a merge conflict and resolve it.

## Creating a merge conflict

> *Note*: This exercise has you commit a change directly to `master`. This is generally not considered Git best practices, and is only being done to demonstrate the process for resolving conflicts.

1. Create a new branch named `test` and switch to it.

  ```bash
  git branch test
  git checkout test
  ```

2. Make a change to `DEVNET.txt` and replace `guru` in `I'm a git guru now!` with `beginner`.

  ```bash
  sed -i 's/guru/beginner/' DEVNET.txt
  ```

3. Commit your change.

  ```bash
  git commit -a -m 'changed guru to beginner'
  ```

4. Switch back to the master branch.

  ```bash
  git checkout master
  ```

5. Make a change to the same line by modifying `guru` in `I'm a git guru now!` to `master` this time and commit your change.

  ```bash
  sed -i 's/guru/master/' DEVNET.txt
  git commit -a -m 'changed guru to master'
  ```

6. Try to merge `master` and `test` with `git merge test`:

  ```bash
  git merge test
  ```

  You should see a message similar to the following example:

<details>
<summary> Output </summary>
<pre><code>
Auto-merging DEVNET.txt
CONFLICT (content): Merge conflict in DEVNET.txt
Automatic merge failed; fix conflicts and then commit the result.
</code></pre>
</details>


## Resolving the conflict

Open the `DEVNET.txt` file:

  ```bash
  cat DEVNET.txt
  ```

You should see some new entries in your file:

<details>
<summary> Output </summary>
<pre><code>
<<<<<<< HEAD
I am a git beginner now!
=======
I am a git master now!
>>>>>>> test
</code></pre>
</details>

This shows you where the `HEAD` version (`master` in this example) conflicts with the `test` branch version.

You have to fix this manually. Often, you will use a merge tool, but for this example, you can use the `vim` text editor.

1. Open `DEVNET.txt` with `vim`.

  ```bash
  vim DEVNET.txt
  ```

2. Use your keyboard up and down arrows to navigate through the lines of text in the `DEVNET.txt` file and use the keystroke `dd` to delete the following lines:

  ```
  <<<<<<< HEAD
  I am a git beginner now!
  =======
  >>>>>>> test
  ```

3. Save your file in `vim` by pressing the `ESC` key and then `:` followed by `wq` and ENTER.

4. Commit the change.

  ```bash
  git commit -a -m 'manually merged from branch test'
  ```
